What do the videos and notebooks tell us?
BBC Verify has reviewed two videos on the YouTube account associated with Westman, before the account was closed.

One of them featured notebooks which suggest extensive planning before the shooting.

One page, titled "Annunciation from memory" in Cyrillic, includes a rough sketch of the layout of a church, which Westman points to before stabbing the sketch with a knife.

One of the notes, also largely written in Cyrillic letters, starts by saying that "things are moving swiftly into place" and that Westman is "feeling good about Annunciation" because it is a "good combo of easy attack for me and devastating tragedy".

The suspect lists a series of options for the attack, including during breaktime at a school or a Christmas concert at a church.

These notes are dated to late July, indicating that Westman had been preparing for this attack for more than a month.

There are also a number of guns, bullets and magazines filmed in what appears to be a bedroom.

A racist and an antisemitic message, as well as a message calling for the killing of US President Donald Trump, are written on the ammunition and guns.

Who are the victims?
Two children, aged eight and 10, were killed. Seventeen people were also injured, 14 of whom are children.

The three adults who were injured were all parishioners in their 80s, O'Hara said.

Thomas Wyatt, chairman of emergency medicine at Hennepin County Medical Center, said seven children aged between six and 14 years old were brought to his department and were in critical condition, with four needing surgery.

Non-critical patients were taken to other hospitals.

All injured victims are expected to survive, officials said.

"Our hearts are broken for the families who have lost their children", as well as for the young lives "fighting to recover" and for "the entire community that has been so deeply traumatised by this senseless attack", O'Hara also said.

A 10-year-old boy who survived the attack told CBS affiliate WCCO that his friend saved him from bullets by lying on top of him.

"I was like two seats away from the stained glass window," he said. "My friend, Victor, saved me though, because he laid on top of me, but he got hit."

"My friend got hit in the back, he went to the hospital... I was super scared for him but I think now he's okay," he said.

